= Ruby4Knime

Ruby4Knime is a realization of special node types for http://knime.org that allow to use Ruby scripts for interactive data analytic.
The main aims of this project are:
* provide possibility to use Ruby language for interactive data analysis;
* make the analysis more effective using clear and laconic Ruby style.

knime.rb is the simple mediator that allows to use KNIME`s classes written in Java in the Ruby programming style and also use all Java classes without any changes.

= Simple examples
These samples illustrate how to generate output data from input data of the node.

== Copy existing rows

  $inData0.each do |row|
    $outContainer << row
  end

== Add new two columns with String and Int types
This example also illustrates the progress state updating.

  count = $inData0.length
  $inData0.each_with_index do |row, i|
    $outContainer << (row << Cells.new.string('Hi!').int(row.getCell(0).to_s.length))
    setProgress "#{i*100/count}%" if i%100 != 0
  end

== Create new rows
In this example new rows creates with new uniq rowkeys. Therefore it is possible to create output table with any number of rows.
  $inData0.each do |row|
    $outContainer << Cells.new.string(row.getCell(0).to_s.length.to_s)
  end

In this example cell 0 copies without changes and adds difference between cells with indexes 1 and 2. Index in Ruby style.
  $inData0.each do |row|
    $outContainer << Cells.new.int(row[0].to_i).double(row[1].to_f - row[2].to_f)
  end


== Ruby Snippet examples
Ruby snippet realizes as the body of a lambda-function in the following template:
  func = ->(row) do
    <<SNIPPET CODE>>
  end
  snippetRunner &func

=== Simple snippet examples
Copy all rows without changes. Code may contains only row-variable.

  row

Add difference between columns:

  row << Cells.new.
    double(row[1].to_f - row[2].to_f)

== Access to cells of the input row

Now is realized an access to cells of the row by indexes and by names.
E.g. we have a table with following columns 'x', 'Y1', 'Y2', 'y1(1)', 'y2(1)'.
We can access by indexes from 0 to 4 or from -1 (last column) to -5 (first column).
For these names a special methods are generated. All names are translated in low case.
All symbols except alhabetic and numbers are changed to underline symbol. Multiple
undeline symbols are changed by a single. Last one is deleted. That is we have a following
set of methods: #x, #y1, #y2, #y1_1, #y2_1 available for instances of
BlobSupportDataRow class. Following code fragments are available:

  row << Cells.new.double(row[0].to_f)
                   double(row.y1.to_f - row.y2.to_f)

and

  $inData0.each do |row|
    $outContainer << Cells.new.string(row.x.to_s)
  end

== Other experiments
Samples that add new cells in functional style.
  count = $inData0.length
  $inData0.each_with_index do |row,i|
    $outContainer << row.string('Hi!').int(row.getCell(0).to_s.length).append
    setProgress "#{i*100/count}%" if i%100 != 0
  end

  $inData0.each do |row|
    $outContainer << $outContainer.createRowKey.stringCell(row.getCell(0).to_s.length.to_s).new_row
  end

= Other notes

Now it is possible to use any types of KNIME in the DataOutput table.
Simply input a full qualified Java class name in the configuration dialog of
the Ruby node. E.g. org.knime.core.data.def.ComplexNumberCell or 
org.knime.ext.textprocessing.data.DocumentCell.